# WhatIs: Audio feedback.

Smartphones can provide not only visual but also audio feedback on user interaction with the web application. 

Audio is an obvious way to present gesture information, given the context in which gesture recognition can be useful.

 It can be used to present voluminous, dynamic data, and is suitable for use where the eyes may be busy. For example, 
other visual displays or other tasks, such as walking with mobile devices. 
The result can be audio feedback: 
* Outputs different sounds for different keys, depending on where the key is pressed.
 * notification when adjusting the volume
 * menu navigation events
 * notification of incoming call or message
 * sending or receiving alerts
 * transmission of emotional state (e.g. notification of a new achievement)

Sounds may differ depending on the activation of certain functions or may be a signal for successful or unsuccessful 
performance.

Also an example of the common audio feedback is the "click" sound output in response to user input via the virtual 
keyboard input. For example, a "click" can also signal to the user that he or she is getting interaction with the system
 (button press, scrolling, etc.). 

The popularity of audio interfaces has increased recently. For example, audio feedback can provide audio feedback data 
instead of visual feedback or in addition to it, to transmit information and content to the user. For example, if you 
use a navigator and correct the route with audio messages, allowing you to focus on driving.

## Types of audio feedback

#### Notification 
Notifications are small pop-ups on your device screen. They can appear on the screen of any device that has a 
notification area. Their main role is to help draw the user's attention and they provide an opportunity to customize the 
sound of selected interactions, for example:
* Informing about a new message
* Changing the status of the application
* confirmation of successful completion of the process

 Because they are more common than other sounds in the user interface, they are usually short and can be created so that
they can be played several times.
#### The basic sounds of UX
Primary UX sounds are generated by the operating system (or device) to provide feedback to the user. They can add sound 
to any interaction, for example:

* Navigating through menus
* Confirmation of direct action by the user
* Data entry

#### UX secondary sounds
Secondary UX sounds are played less frequently in the user interface. They should reflect the individuality of the 
product, but are mainly used for functional purposes, to inform users of changes in status or to indicate infrequent 
actions, for example:

* Updating the news feed 
* Successfully deleting or adding information
* Warning sounds

#### Heroic sounds
Heroic sounds emphasize an important moment, cause emotional state or express triumph. The sound of a celebration 
expresses a sense of success, achievement or reward. 
They occur in basic interactions, such as those that:
* To celebrate a significant positive action taken by the user
* Welcome to the new application or experience
* Successful achievement of the application functionality goal

#### The sound of decoration
The sound used for decoration can enhance the expressive or playful moment. It is usually used to convey an emotional
 state. This type of sound should be used intelligently and reserved for moments of high emotional resonance.

